.\" manpage for Open Genome
.TH "opengenome" "1" "June 2026" "Open Genome" "Open Genome Manual"

.SH NAME
opengenome \- local-first terminal workflows for genome data

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBopengenome [OPTIONS]\fR

.SH DESCRIPTION
Open Genome is a keyboard-first terminal application for setting up local genomics tooling, selecting sequencing data, preparing workflow runs, launching Nextflow pipelines, and reviewing local reports.
.br
Open Genome keeps reads, alignments, variants, assemblies, logs, and reports on the user's machine by default.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-config\fR \fI<path>\fR
Path to the configuration file.

.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-theme\fR \fI<theme>\fR
Set the theme to use in the TUI.
.br
Possible values:
\fIdefault\fR,
\fIcompatible\fR.
.br
Defaults to \fIdefault\fR.

.TP
\fB\-y\fR, \fB\-\-skip\-confirmation\fR
Skip confirmation prompt before executing commands.

.TP
\fB\-\-override\-validation\fR
Show all available options, disregarding compatibility checks.

.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-size\-bypass\fR
Bypass the terminal size limit.

.TP
\fB\-m\fR, \fB\-\-mouse\fR
Enable mouse interaction.

.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-bypass\-root\fR
Bypass root user check.

.TP
\fB\-\-demo\-output\fR
Generate the bundled local demo output bundle without launching the TUI.

.TP
\fB\-\-human\-validation\-output\fR
Run the public human validation output workflow without launching the TUI.

.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Print help.

.SH DOCUMENTATION
Project documentation and source:
.br
https://github.com/Jakeelamb/opengenome

.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report reproducible issues at:
.br
https://github.com/Jakeelamb/opengenome/issues

.SH COPYRIGHT
MIT License.
